{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Employees in a factory were asked the following question: \'93Do you like to work with your co-worker?\'94 Possible answers are 1 for yes and 0 for no. Each employee gave an answer for each other employee, thus creating an adjacency matrix.\
\
The exercises below can be done in igraph ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://igraph.org/"}}{\fldrslt http://igraph.org/}}), either in R or python (or C/C++ :). I\'92ve given a quick start in R.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
1. Load the data and create an unweighted directed graph from the adjacency matrix. Name the nodes as letters A to Y. Set node color to yellow and shape to sphere. Set the edge\'92s color to gray and arrow size to 0.2.\

\f1\fs22 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 install.packages("igraph")\
library(\'93graph\'94)
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
d <- read.csv("sociogram-employees-un.csv", header=FALSE)\
g <- graph.adjacency(as.matrix(d), mode="directed")\
V(g)$name <- LETTERS[1:NCOL(d)]\
V(g)$color <- "yellow"\
V(g)$shape <- "sphere"\
E(g)$color <- "gray"\
E(g)$arrow.size <- 0.2
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
2. Plot the graph.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
plot(g)
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
3. Calculate network diameter and average closeness. (This might be useful: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://igraph.org/r/doc/"}}{\fldrslt http://igraph.org/r/doc/}})\
\
4. Calculate average network betweenness.\
\
5. Calculate network density and average degree.\
\
6. Calculate network reciprocity and average transitivity.\
\
7. Calculate average eccentricity of the vertices. What is the average distance between two nodes?\
\
8. Find the hubs and plot graph with node\'92s size according to their hubs index. Which employee is the biggest hub?\
\
9. Find the authorities and plot graph with node\'92s size according to their authority index. Which employee is the biggest authority?\
\
10. Show the nodes comprising the diameter. Plot these nodes larger and in red. Plot edges on this path thicker in red.\
\
Part 2: Now make an 
\b undirected 
\b0 graph from the same data, and use for the following exercises.\
\
11. \cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Find the largest cliques in the group.\
\
12. How many maximal cliques are there?\
\
13. Calculate the network cohesion.\
\
14. Find the clusters based on betweenness.\
\
15. Find the components of the graph.\
\
16. Find the loop edges.\
\
17. How many triangles are there in the graph? In how many of them is vertex 
\b S
\b0  included?\
\
18. What is the global clustering coefficient of this network? Can we say that clustering is statistically significant for this network? 
\i Tip: Check if the clustering coefficient is much larger than a random network with the same number of vertices and edges.
\i0 \
\
19. Make and graph a small-world network.\
\
\
Original assignment by Miodrag Sljukic.}